Speed up feature development by prototyping new code with Xcode Playgrounds, eliminating the need to keep rebuilding and relaunching your project to verify your changes. We'll show you how using a playground in your project or package can help you try out your code in various scenarios and take a close look at the returned values, including complex structures and user interface elements, so you can quickly iterate on a feature before integrating it into your project.
#xcode #playgrounds 

# Rapid iterations
I will try to adjust this code in an xcode playground.  Let's start by adding a new playground to my project.

### Build a new trait collection instance from scratch - 2:04
```swift
var birdsToShow: [Bird] {
    // TODO: Narrow down the list of birds to find.
    let birdProvider = BirdProvider(region: .northAmerica)
    return birdProvider.birds
}
```

Long click run button, and choose automatically run.

Notice that the playground's projects have two settings enabled by default.  "build active scheme" and "import app types".  This will ensure that we are building and importing things.  Easier to work with the types defined within your projecct.

### birdProvider instance - 4:15
```swift
let birdProvider = BirdProvider(region: .northAmerica)
```

Inline result shows details of provider instance, along with its two properties.  birds array and provider region.  Each row also has a type ifnormation label which shows a short summary of the type.

Region and birds array properties.  By default, we only show the array indexes.  Custom type has no description defined.


### CustomStringConvertible - 6:31
```swift
extension Bird: CustomStringConvertible {
    
    public var description: String {
        return "\(commonName) (\(scientificName))"
    }
    
}
```

New splitview based user interface which allows me to see structure of the object along with its preview.

No such preview for my custom bird type by default.  It would be great to already see the photo here, as I'm not familiar with each species names.

### CustomPlaygroundDisplayConvertible - 8:17
```swift
extension Bird: CustomPlaygroundDisplayConvertible {
    
    public var playgroundDescription: Any {
        return photo as Any
    }
    
}
```

Now the birds that already have a photo will quickly show it without the need of expanding the row.  Easier to work with large collections of this custom type.

What about birds that don't have a photo?

### Birds without a photo - 9:45
```swift
let birdsToFind = birdProvider.birds.filter { $0.photo == nil }
```

consider that we have two results, including one for the closure (display the latest value).

### Owls without a photo - 10:52
```swift
let owlsToFind = birdsToFind.filter { $0.family == .owls }
```


### Verifying the ChecklistView - 11:15
```swift
let checklist = ChecklistView()
for bird in owlsToFind {
    checklist.add(bird)
}
```

as a UIView subclass, we now see a snapshot.

Can view history to see what it looked like in each iteration.

To learn more about new string catalogs, see [[Discover String Catalogs]]

I will quickly bring my code that I used to narrowdown the list of birds into my project.

### birdsToShow computed property with the required changes - 13:41
```swift
var birdsToShow: [Bird] {
    let birdProvider = BirdProvider(region: .northAmerica)
    let birdsToFind = birdProvider.birds.filter { $0.photo == nil }
    let owlsToFind = birdsToFind.filter { $0.family == .owls }
    return owlsToFind
}
```


Also add a return statement with a new much smaller array of birds.

Once I select a row in the list, it opens a simple mapview.  Not that useful, but I'd like to fetch the sighting data here.

### sightingToShow function before the required changes - 14:21
```swift
func sightingToShow(for bird: Bird) -> Sighting? {
    // TODO: Use BirdSightings package to fetch the most recent sighting.
    return nil
}
```

### BirdSightings package example - 15:04
```swift
let barnOwlCode = "BNOW"
let centralParkLocation = CLLocationCoordinate2D(latitude:  40.785091, longitude: -73.968285)

let sightingsProvider = SightingsProvider()
sightingsProvider.fetchSightings(of: barnOwlCode, around: centralParkLocation)
```
### Parameters for sightings fetching - 16:08
```swift
let bird = owlsToFind.first!
let appleParkLocation = CLLocationCoordinate2D(latitude: 37.3348655, longitude: 122.0089409)
```

avoid unnecessary network calls by switching to manual playground mode.


### Sightings fetching - 17:31
```swift
let sightingsProvider = SightingsProvider()
let sightings = sightingsProvider.fetchSightings(of: bird.speciesCode, around: appleParkLocation)
```

Ideally we want to put this onto a map.

### Initializing the SightingMapView - 18:23
```swift
let mostRecentSighting = sightings.first
let sightingMapView = SightingMapView(sighting: mostRecentSighting)
```

For complex UI elements, we want to use the playground's live view.
### Setting up the playground's live view - 18:55
```swift
import PlaygroundSupport
PlaygroundPage.current.liveView = sightingMapView
```

I don't recall any islands close to apple park.  I can zoom out a little like I would in an iPhone simulator tos ee where we are.

In xcode 15, we improved playground results for some CLLocationCoordinate2D and related.

### sightingToShow function with the required changes - 22:20
```swift
func sightingToShow(for bird: Bird) -> Sighting? {
    let sightingsProvider = SightingsProvider()
    let sightings = sightingsProvider.fetchSightings(of: bird.speciesCode, around: lastCurrentLocation)
    let mostRecentSighting = sightings.first
    return mostRecentSighting
}
```



# Exercise rare code paths
# Try out new dependencies

# Wrap up
* customize playground representation
* Take advantage of execution modes
* Use value history mode
* Work with live views
* 